
##### Introduction


- Lambda limits
  - Min 128 MB
  - Max 3008 MB
  - 64 MB increments
- Setting Execution Timeouts:
  - 300 Seconds - 5 mins
    - Default 3 sec
  
- CPU power is proportional to the memory allocated to your function:
  - Example: 2048 MB will have 16 times the CPU share as 128 (2048/128=16)
  
- Code monitoring and logging - CloudWatch
  - logging statements can be customized

- AWS SAM [Serverless Application Model](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/what-is-sam.html) - AWS model used to define serverless architectures.

- Handler - Function that lambda invokes.
```python
import json


def my_handler(event, context): ...
```

- Event - to pass event from other services.
- Context - provides runtime info, such as lambda info, lambda duration 

- Event Sources Available
  - S3
  - DynamoDB
  - Kinesis
  - SNS
  - SES
  - Cognito
  - CloudFormation
  - CloudWatch
  - CodeCommit
  - Config
  - Alexa
  - Lex
  - API Gateway
  - IoT Button
  - CloudFront
  - On Demand Event Sources:
    - Test Events
    - Custom Events (SDKs)
    
---

##### Limits

- Resources Limits per invocation - 
  - Memory allocation range - Min: 128 / Max: 3008 MB
  - Ephemeral Disk Capacity (`/tmp`) - 512 MB
  - Number of line descriptors - 1024
  - Number of process and threads - 1024
  - Maximum execution duration per request - 300 Seconds
  - Invoke request body payload size - 6 MB - Synchronous and 128 KB - Asynchronous

- Account Limits per Region -  
  - Concurrency executions - 1000

- Deployment Limits -
  - Deployment Package Size - 50 MB
  - Total Size of Packages per Region - 75 GB
  - Size of Code/Dependencies in Single Package - 250 MB
  - Total Size of Environment Variables Set - 4 KB

---  

##### Retries
- Reasons for function failure could be:
  - Time Out
  - Code fails to parse the event/input data
  - Resource constraints (cpu/mem)
  
- All of the above will always throw an exception. 
- Failure retries depend on the invocation methods used.

- Synchronous Failures -
  - Non stream based - Application that invokes the function receives a `429` error.
  - Retires may be builtin to the integration and services (e.g. Cognito).

- Asynchronous Failures - 
 - Non stream based - Events are queued before being used to invoke functions.
   - Lambda retires `twice` with delays, then send to `Dead Letter Queue` if configured. 
 
 - Stream based services such as `DynamoDB` streams.
   - Lambda will retry until the data expires (Differs per service).
   - Lambda will `block` and not read new records until retry succeeds.
   - Order is ensured using the blocking principle.
   
---

- Cold Start Time - First invocations are slowest (aka Cold Start)
  - Proceeding requests happens faster.
  
  
  
  






















   
  
