##### [Index](README.md)

---

##### What is IAM ( Identity and Access Management)

- IAM is where you manage you AWS users and their access to AWS accounts and services.

- IAM is commonly used to manage:
  - Users
  - Groups
  - IAM Access Polices
  - Roles
  
- Note: The user created when created the AWS account is called the `root` user.

- By default, the `root` user has full administrative rights and access to every part of the account.

- By default, any new users you create in the AWS account are created with no access to any AWS services.

- For all users(accept root user), permissions must be given that grant access to AWS services.

- MFA (multi factor authenticator - such as google authenticator)

- AWS best practise is to never use your root account for day-to-day user.

- If you want full admin access, create an IAM user and attach the `AdministrativeAccess` policy to it.

- IAM password policy: dictates the format and expiration rules that a user must follow when creating or modifying their password.

- These rules include:
  - Length requirements
  - Case requirements
  - Number requirements
  - Non-alphanumeric requirements
  - Password expiration
  - Password reuse
  - User rights to change their own password
  - Administrator reset requirements
  
---

##### IAM Users and Policies

- Add User
  - Access Type:
    - Programmatic access: Enables an `access key ID` and `secret access key` for the AWS API, CLI, SDK, and other development tools.
    - AWS Management Console access: Enables a password that allows users to sign-in to the AWS Management Console. 
    
---

##### IAM Groups and Policies

- Single user can be part of up 10 groups

---

##### IAM Roles

- When needs permission for service to service interaction Roles is required. For example if `ec2` needs access to `s3`, we create a role with s3 policy and assign to ec2.    